# Meeting 2026-03-06

**Date:** 2026-03-06  
**Time:** 10:00–10:30 AM  
**Location:** Teams

## Attendees
- BMW: Dave, David, Jason
- MIT: Ivy, Bernardo, Barath, Erwin

## Agenda
1. What we did
2. Questions

---

## Discussion

### Workflow
- We made a workflow for this project.
- See the repo for our notes + our current framework.
- Note that for a lot of papers don't include open source code

Idea 1
- Vision model captures the plain text
- Prompt optimization on top of that
  - GEPA
  - Trace
Idea 2
- Optimization within the Vision Model in itself

Insights / Advice from BMW:
- David has experience (used OCR model from Anthropic)
- Detecting text is not the hard part
- The hard part is finding the relationships between the text
  - Separation between paragraphs
  - Tables: each column / row
- Looked our pipeline and liked the separate vision model

Insights from Jason:
- Important to have the vision model OR the prompt optimization to understand the spacial relationship

Insights from David:
- We use a OCR / Vision Language Model to get the text
- To understand the relationships:
   - Either use VLM directly
   - OR use prompt refinement. And when you get the context, you have a better understand. Hence the trainable pipeline, that learns the context by itself.

### Resources
- Jason replaced the sample documents. Found couple errors.
- Each sample document has a json file with the ground truth
- Evaluation script that takes ground truth + prediction JSON, and give a score. Use the library deepdiff
- We can change it if we think we need to emphasize some points
- Complete JSON schema uploaded as well

### Barath experiment
- Used vision models (Qwen, Gemini)
- Then played with GEPA
- Generate a JSON

### Generator
- Jason is still working on it.

### VLM resource issues (Barath Question)
- Barath built a working prototype.
- It is using a small Vision model, that takes the sample documents
- Then, one step of prompt evolution
- And see if the output gets better
- Bottleneck: doing this in colab with GPU. So limited by local models. The stronger VLM requires API, and hence cost.
- Barath tried Grok + Google free APIs.
- Most of the prompt evolution requires many iterations. How to deal with this resource limitation?

Answers: get the text first, don't iterate on images.
- It is a bottleneck for BMW as well, consume a lot of resources.
- Instead of using images, use text and work on text only, rather than images.
- Use open source models for the prompt evolution, iteration.

### Why doc as images, rather than pdf?
- Otherwise the task is trivialized (for text extraction).
- And for some use case, they don't have the pdf

### BMW package suggestion
- To extract layout (block of text, ocr): surya/ocr
- Can be used for relationship.
- But remind that the solution is to use a language model, and refine it. The goal is not to make a whole python script to extract all information
- So expose that tool to the language model. Wrap in FastMCP or something.
- OR rely on VLM if feasible.
